Over the last few years, I've helped
dozens of SAS companies like RB2B,
Aventer, Proposify, Click House, and
many more scale their revenue with SEO.
So, today I'm going to dive into what
are the facts and what's fiction when it
comes to driving real signups, leads,
demos, and cash in the bank for your SAS
business. We'll dive into tactics,
strategies, frameworks, so you can copy
our exact process of breaking B2B and
put it into play yourself. Let's dive
in.
So, first off, you want to forget the
vanity metrics. What do I mean by that?
I mean, you might be falling into what I
call the traffic trap. So, focusing on
getting as many visitors to your website
as possible, which many SEO companies
looked at in the past. But the sad thing
is you might get tons and tons of
traffic and visitors to your website.
But if they never convert to signups,
demos, leads, book calls, then it's
going to be absolutely useless for your
business in terms of impact. So instead
of going for what I call the topfunnel
traffic trap where you might
traditionally go forformationalbased
queries like what is a CRM, what is a
KPI, how to build a website, all those
simple questions. And the issue with
going for that those kind of search
terms, they're now being wiped out by AI
searches. So Google AI overviews is
giving you an instant answer above the
fold on Google for those
simpleformational topfunnel queries. So
instead, we recommend focusing on bottom
ofunnel searches, i.e. What's your dream
client going to search for when they're
in market today looking for your
software, looking for your service,
comparing options, looking to switch
away from their current vendor, or has a
very crisp and specific expensive
problem and job to be done that you can
solve. That way, you might get less
visitors, less traffic, but these are
commercial transactional searches that
are way, way more likely to result in
inbound business, keep your sales team
happy, and actually drive cash in the
bank.
By the way, if you're tired of SAS SEO
agencies promising the world and just
delivering traffic instead of signups,
demos, and revenues, we might be able to
deliver pipeline as fast as 90 days for
your SAS company. Grab a call with me
over at breakingb2tb.com or hit the link
in the description below. Right, back to
the video. Customer research is your
unfair advantage in the world we're in
now where you can generate basically
tons of content in the click of a button
with chat GBT AI tools. The issue is
with that content, most of it sounds
like jargon. Like you land on SAS
websites now and sometimes you'll see
things like we're a 360°ree all-in-one
workplace management solution to solve
every problem. You land on it and you
think what the heck does this business
do? I have no idea what they do, how
they help me, how they're
differentiated, or why I should even
choose them. So customer research should
be the backbone of your SAS or B2B
marketing strategy in general. Why?
Well, if you want to resonate with dream
clients, you need to actually know what
they care about, their struggling
moments, their expensive problems, their
motivations, and much, much more. If you
don't do it, your website messaging,
your ads, your content, your media
engine is going to fall flat because it
doesn't hit home with those dream
clients. So, here's exactly what you
want to do. I recommend you interview 7
to 10 recently won customers. You want
recently won because they have no bias
to yourself, your product, your
solution. If you interview long-term
clients, they're probably going to love
you and say all good things. It doesn't
actually help your strategy. And if
you've got some recently churned,
recently lost clients, chuck those in
the mix so you can get some solid
feedback as well and some learning. So
questions you want to think about are
things like what expensive problems did
you have when you reached out to us?
What made that problem so frustrating?
What impact did it have? Was were you
churning clients? Was it causing revenue
loss? Was it causing kind of long
delays? Was there a lot of time where
kind of the way you were getting the job
done today, maybe an Excel spreadsheets
cause a lot of pain and time loss? What
made you choose us over other software
vendors or solutions? What do you hate
most about our industry or our sector?
Where do you get trusted information
from? So, if you're looking to seek out
solutions or softwares like ours, you go
to LinkedIn, YouTube, ask your
community, ask peers, network, go to ads
or listen to podcasts, like where do you
get that trusted info from? And also,
what made you nearly not decide to work
with us when you're on the fence? Were
there any kind of thoughts in your head
as to thinking, well, maybe I shouldn't
use these guys? And of course, tailor
this to your niche, your solution.
There'll probably be other questions
that come to mind, but that's a at a
broad level. And once you've done that,
you want to record this with the
customers, ideally on a tool like
Riverside or Zoom. Use a cool
transcriber like Fathom or there's loads
of others. Run the cool transcripts for
a tool like Chat GBT. And then look,
what you want to look for is patterns in
the responses. So to each question, look
for the most common response in each
question. And from this, you can pull
common words that your dream clients use
to describe their pain points, their
motivations, their jobs to be done, why
they choose you. Look for all those
things that keep popping up time and
again. Look for those often said
responses. And then this gold dust can
then inform your website messaging,
things like your headlines. You can
weave it into ads because you really
know your clients struggling moments and
their expensive problems. So it's going
to help your ads, help your content.
It's going to help your media engine if
you're creating videos or blog posts or
articles. It's going to help your sales
team so they can address those questions
head on. Website landing pages so you
can address those problems and FAQs. So
all of this is going to inform your
general go to market. So this is not
just good SEO advice, but it's good
general B2B marketing advice to nail
this. Next up, we've got competitor
content. It's super powerful. The reason
being is your dream clients as a SAS and
software business. They're not searching
for alternatives to your competitors for
a pastime or for fun. They're doing it
because they're genuinely in market.
I.e. maybe the pricing of their current
solution went up skyh high. Perhaps the
customer service just got terrible.
Maybe they just got acquired and the
response rate to tickets has just gone
taken hours or days. So, you're getting
really frustrated. Or maybe there's
something else that's just annoying
those customers. So if you can hit on
that, capture that demand when prospects
are either looking to move away from
their current vendor, maybe they're
comparing you to another solution that's
quite close in terms of spec or features
or maybe there's just another issue or
frustration or kind of they're trying to
judge pricing. So if you can capture
that demand, those dream clients
evaluating, frustrated, or just
comparing you to other options. That's
why competitor content is so useful. Not
only that, but it can rank super super
fast, which we'll dive into in a second.
So, as an example of how you can build
these pages out, we work with RB2B,
who's a visitor identification software
provider, and we work their founder,
Adam Robinson. So, RB2B, one of their
money keywords we found on the
competitor side was lead feeder
alternatives. That's a common competitor
they're weighed against. The way these
pages are normally built out, it might
be we evaluated the top lead feeder
alternatives of 2026. Usually, it's a
listical based article. And the way
they're formulated is usually have the
H1 at the top. We evaluated the top 2026
competitors of lead feeder. That's the
H1. Then in the body, you normally have
an intro. You'll normally position your
software or tool as number one. But
instead of just shouting about how great
you are, you'll normally leverage this
customer research we talked about. So
this is why folks choose us. This is the
main features people care about. Here's
a snapshot of pricing. Here's where
we're a great fit. Here's where we're
not such a great fit. We want to show
your product in action. So screenshots
where your product clicks into play. The
aha moment kind of where it really kind
of shines through. If you've got a gift
of kind of the product in action, if
you've got customer video reviews, why
they chose you, leverage all that. and
then you want to do a fair comparison of
the other vendors below. So that's
typically how those are formulated. But
you can also get landing pages which
might be kind of your software versus
another software or competitor one
versus competitor 2 versus you. And
that's usually where you talk about the
first two competitors as a landing page
format. And then you'll share kind of
where your software is the ultimate fit
for that dream client. Again, back it by
customer research. Maybe look at GT
reviews or other review sites and kind
of leverage where these companies might
fall short or where they're not the best
fit and where your solution really is
the the solution of choice backed by
plenty of proof points, social proof and
then clear call to action so folks can
easily sign up for your software or grab
a demo. And like I said, we recently did
this strategy for rb2b.com. We got the
lead feeder alternatives page ranking I
believe within 30 to 40 days top and
that's driving a steady stream of
signups for their SAS. And the good
thing about these keywords is they're
typically super low difficulty but they
can rank really really fast. So, it's a
great initial strategy for a SAS company
to capture demand, drive demos and
signups. Next up, we've got speed is how
you can beat the big giants in your
industry as a SAS company. So, the
massive corporations, as you probably
know, they've got huge headcount.
They're probably doing huge revenue, but
their bottleneck is they move super
slow. So, your advantage is a fast
moving perhaps a smaller SAS company or
even a scrappier startup is that you can
move way quicker. Big companies have
tons of red tape. Everything moves
slowly. Big long drained out approval
processes. So for example, as a
fastmoving company, you can establish
your money keywords. That might be
competitor keywords and content. That
might be going for list goals like best
X software. That might be industry
landing pages like offer for industry or
it might be specific integrations you
serve or use cases or ICP personas. So
you can really work out these money
keywords that those dream clients are
looking for on chat GPT, LLMs or Google
organic when they specifically need your
offer right now. And then you can work
out what type of content you need to
build, whether that's landing pages, use
case pages, integration pages,
competitor content, best of listicles or
more. And you can have a process of
working out what type of content you
need to build, publishing them at fast
rate, whatever is realistic for your
company, whether that's a couple
articles or pages a week or or more if
you've got the resource or you're
working with agency like Breaking B2B to
do this at pace. as well as that can be
doing other parts of SEO whether that's
the technical side perhaps link building
to build up your authority over time
whether that's working with partnerships
guesting on niche relevant podcast so
you can publish the page and then link
back to yourself getting included in
external listicles articles talking
about your software your tools your
niche or industry those are super
powerful for LLMs LLM love to pick up on
external third party listicles review
sites etc so having a process to do that
at a steady rate each and every week and
month so what I'm getting at is if you
can build out your strate strategy,
publish at speed, do the off- page SEO,
link building, getting your brand
mentions to get those LLM inclusions,
and do that way faster than those super
slowmoving competitors. And like I say,
I've seen giant companies take 6 months
plus to publish one article can move way
faster as a smaller business. That's
going to be your unfair advantage in the
SEO game. And last up, we've got don't
be fooled by AI search. There's a ton of
hype going on right now, especially on
channels like LinkedIn and other social
channels that chat GPT killed Google.
RIP Google. The truth is a bunch of
companies have done reports lately like
Spark, Toro and Datas did one and it
still shows that Google has around 98%
of market share. I think all the AI
tools combined are around 2 to 3%. So it
shows you Google is still a beast when
it comes to capturing demand, capturing
that qualified traffic and those inbound
leads, demos and signups to your SAS
company. So definitely don't neglect
Google. I will say this though, if you
have a more technical dream client base,
if you have a more technical ICP, then
those folks may be using LLMs like chat
GBT way more. So, what can you do when
it comes to show up on Google AI
overviews, Chat GBT, and other LLMs?
Well, the good news is you don't need to
completely chuck out and revise your
strategy. A lot of good bottom of funnel
classic SEO plays carry through to LLM,
AI overviews, and chat GBT. So, some
things you want to think about
everything we've talked about so far,
leveraging customer research in all of
your content so you can really resonate
with dream clients problems, jobs to be
redone, motivators, and much, much more.
Content freshness seems to be big. It's
making sure when you're publishing blog
posts, you're regularly updating them.
Having that EAT experience, expertise,
authority, and trust shining through, so
you're leveraging hands-on knowledge
from whoever's putting together content,
whether that's an agency like Breaking
B2B or an in-house specialist. Making
sure your content is super easy to
consume. So we often in blog posts we'll
do a quick summary, quick intro, why you
should trust us and those can be picked
up in tools like Google AI overviews.
And then I really encourage you to try
and control the narrative in your niche
in your industry. What do I mean there?
Well, what I mean is making sure, so we
talked about things like competitor
content, showing up for things like best
X software or industry landing pages,
making sure you're really building that
mo on your own website. So you've got
pages for every time someone could
search for a competitor alternative or
competitor one versus competitor 2
versus you. You've got pages for every
industry you serve. You got pages for
each use case. Pages for your main
features, pages for the main ICPS that
you're helping. You've got a pricing
page. So, if someone's searching on Chat
GBT or Google for your own pricing, that
shows up clearly. Shows how you're
differentiated, answers, FAQs, and more.
You've got case studies and results. So,
essentially what I'm getting at is you
really control the narrative. You've got
all those lines in the water when
someone's searching on Google or Chat
GBT. You've got that really helpful,
useful, authorative content that can
show up and convert and listicles are
really, really big. So these best
software of 2026 listicles or best
competitor alternative lists of 2026
really really important to have those
all for each use case each option on
your own website because they can get
picked up a lot in chat GBT when you're
doing these kind of searches as well as
Google. They rank exceptionally well. So
making sure you own all of those and
then thinking about building out your
off- page strategy on external websites.
So which is what good bottom funnel
should have been anyway. Nail everything
on your own website so you're
controlling the narrative. Then do off-
page SEO. So look to get featured in
external listicles that are being
mentioned in chat GBT and Google AI
overviews. So you can get a top three
placement. So if someone finds you on
one of those looking for best X software
or best X alternatives, your feature top
three placement, you can scoop out
potential direct inbound demos. You can
get that brand mention and your category
mention which can help you get cited in
AI searches. Plus it gives you a PR
boost and hit. Another ways that are
working quite well now is having some
kind of Reddit strategy. So if someone's
searching for certain tools of your
niche, Reddit threads often get pulled
up in Google organic as well as chatbt.
So if you're able to use tools that can
tell you when someone's searching for
advice around your category, tool or
similar, you can have a strategy to be
genuinely useful and mention your brand
if it's allowed in that subreddit and
just a wider B2B marketing strategy. So
making sure you're trying to show up for
money terms on YouTube, creating super
helpful content there. LinkedIn SEO like
we've talked about sites like Kora if
you're able to. I'd always say kind of
prioritize the kind of no-brainer
channels. thinking about starting with
SEO first. Then maybe moving on to
YouTube and LinkedIn cuz you don't want
to drain your resources too too much if
you've only got a small team. So that's
some of the main things we're seeing
right now that work when it comes to
showing up in AI searches and driving
those inbound pipelines. Now, if you're
ready to start taking SEO and AO
seriously for your SAS company, you want
to start driving a steady stream of
signups, demos, book calls, and revenue,
why not grab a call with me over at
breakingb.com
so we can learn more about your
business. I can share actionable tips to
start driving revenue with SEO. So
that's breaking.com or hit the link in
the description below and we can have a
chat. Or if you're not ready, why not
grab my 90 days to revenue SAS SEO
playbook at breakingb2b.com and hit the
newsletter tab where you can check out
the breaking B2B podcast for weekly
interviews with SAS marketing legends.
With that, I should catch you on the
next one. Cheers.